+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Version 2.9.7"
date = "2026-05-11"
tags = ["changelog","version 2.9.7"]
categories = ["changelog"]
+++

## Version 2.9.7 - May 11, 2026


<div class="alert alert-secondary" role="alert">

Update May 11, 2026:

As a non-UI designer, I am seeking assistance and feedback to enhance the user interface (UI) of RsyncUI. With the support of [Open-design](https://github.com/nexu-io/open-design), I requested suggestions for modifications to the Main Synchronize view and Task menu. I am particularly impressed with the redesign. Open-design provided two sketches, resulting in two new version 2.9.7 DMG files for testing. It is only the UI which are updated, the model part is frozen and not changed.

Please download a test. Let me know if you have any comments about the redesign. Due to UI updates, there’ll likely be a new public release version 2.9.8 after testing. If I keep the UI updates, which I intend to do.

</div>

A comprehensive changelog detailing all updates in this release is available. The  [detailed changelog](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUI/blob/main/documents/ver293_ver297.md) can be accessed at the RsyncUI main repository on GitHub. The changelog is generated by AI after reviewing all Git commits and modifications to the source code.

Version 2.9.7 represents a substantial internal refactor, primarily focusing on enhancing the application's codebase. RsyncUI has been in development and maintenance since late 2020, spanning over five years. It is imperative to maintain the source code's up-to-date status to ensure the continued development and maintenance of the application. During this period, I have experienced a significant learning curve, particularly through the development of my latest application, RawCull, a culling app designed for raw files (photo app).

In the past year, artificial intelligence (AI) has emerged as an increasingly indispensable and valuable tool in the development process. For this version of RsyncUI, both GitHub's `copilot-cli` and Claude's `claude` terminal clients have proven instrumental in facilitating this cleanup effort. While the cleanup process will continue, prior to the release of the next version of RsyncUI (version 2.9.7), it is crucial to ensure that the current version is stable and free from any bugs.

I have personally implemented some updates, and all AI-generated updates have undergone my thorough review. AI-generated updates are executed by providing precise instructions to the AI system. Notably, several iterations were conducted for a few of the refactoring processes. 

