+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Version 2.9.8"
date = "2026-05-12"
tags = ["changelog","version 2.9.8"]
categories = ["changelog"]
+++

## Version 2.9.8 - May 12, 2026

In this release, there are a few minor UI updates. If you prefer the update without the UI updates, please inform me, and I can create an updated version without the UI updates.

<div class="alert alert-secondary" role="alert">

This version primarily focuses on refactoring and cleaning up the model component of RsyncUI. Additionally, there are some updates to the main Synchronize and Tasks view. There are more [internal updates planned](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUI/blob/main/documents/version300.md), and the next and hopefully final cleanup of the code is scheduled for June or July. 

</div>

A comprehensive release notes detailing all **model** updates in this release is available. The  [detailed release notes](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUI/blob/main/documents/ver293_ver297.md) can be accessed at the RsyncUI main repository on GitHub. The changelog is generated by AI after reviewing all Git commits and modifications to the source code.

Next version represents a substantial internal refactor, primarily focusing on enhancing the application's codebase. RsyncUI has been in development and maintenance since late 2020, spanning over five years. It is imperative to maintain the source code's up-to-date status to ensure the continued development and maintenance of the application. During this period, I have experienced a significant learning curve, particularly through the development of my latest application, RawCull, a culling app designed for raw files (photo app).

In the past year, artificial intelligence (AI) has emerged as an increasingly indispensable and valuable tool in the development process. For this version of RsyncUI, both GitHub's `copilot-cli` and ChatGPTs `codex` terminal clients have proven instrumental in facilitating this cleanup effort.

