content/en/docs/settings/logsettings.md, before:

+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
date = "2025-02-05"
title =  "Log settings"
tags = ["logging"]
categories = ["usersettings"]
+++

After changing a setting, save the changes to keep them next time you use RsyncUI.

{{< figure src="/images/usersettings/logsettings.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

**Check for Errors in Output:**

- default: off
- if the word "error" is found in rsync output, you are notified

**Add Summary Log Record:**

- default: on
- a summary of each synchronization is added to the log records; view "Log Listings" from the Sidebar

**No time delay Synchronize URL-actions**

- default: off
- if on, estimated tasks triggered by URL-actions will synchronize without any chance to abort

**Hide the Sidebar on startup**

- default: off
- the sidebar can be hidden; when on, the sidebar is hidden when RsyncUI starts

**Observe mounting of external drives**

- default: off
- automatic profile selection when RsyncUI detects a new mount of a local attached disk

**Always present the summarized estimate view**

- default "on"
- after an estimate, by selecting the Magic Wand on toolbar Synchronize task view, always present the summarized view

**Hide Verify remote:**

- default "on"
- refer to section *"Verify remote"*, this is a kind of special function, default **not** enabled

**Silence missing stats**

- default: off
- stats is the summarized output from rsync; if on, RsyncUI notifies if stats are missing after termination
- in version 2.8.4, missing stats are *unlikely* due to the new *RsyncProcessStreaming*

**Validate arguments**

- default "on", a validation for default parameters
- if the `—delete` parameter is included in the task configuration, the validation checks its presence or absence based on the task configuration’s state, which specifies whether a delete operation is required
- other default validated parameters include `—archive`, `—compress`, and `—dry-run`
  - the `—archive` parameter is always enabled
  - the `—compress` parameter is only applicable for remote tasks
  - if the user requests an estimate, the validation checks that the `—dry-run` parameter is included within the arguments

**Confirm Execution:**

- see below

**Error Output from rsync:**

Sample of an error in output from rsync. If the switch "Check for error in output" is enabled, RsyncUI writes the output to the log file and alerts the user about any errors in rsync.

The log file is stored at `$HOME/.rsyncosx/macserial/rsyncui.txt`. The log file can be opened from the main view.

{{< figure src="/images/usersettings/errorinrsync.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

#### Confirm Execute

This option is only available if version 3.x of `rsync` is enabled.

The confirm dialog appears when the number of files to synchronize is comparable to a new task. Sometimes a remote server or local disk becomes unavailable or you forget to attach it. If you start a synchronize task when the destination is unavailable, `rsync` may think it's a new full sync and prompt you to confirm or abort.

If a remote server is unavailable, `rsync` will likely complain and generate an error. If the `check for error in output` option is enabled in the user settings, the `rsync` error messages written to the log and an Alert will be displayed.

If a local disk is not attached, `rsync` will attempt to synchronize the data to the `/Volumes/` directory on your Mac. This directory is typically where macOS mounts local attached disks.
```bash
/dev/disk5s2 on /Volumes/Import bilder (apfs, local, nodev, nosuid, journaled, noowners)
/dev/disk6s1 on /Volumes/Backups (apfs, local, nodev, nosuid, journaled, noowners)
```
Below the local attached volume is not connected, and the estimate may interpret this as a new synchronize task. If you have simply forgotten to attach the disk, you do not want `RsyncUI` to synchronize data to the `/Volume` directory.

{{< figure src="/images/usersettings/summarizedview.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

Commit message:

Update log settings docs and inspector UI image
Added documentation for the 'Use two tables Inspector' feature in log settings, describing its application to the main Sidebar menu Tasks. Updated the corresponding UI screenshot to reflect these changes.

content/en/docs/settings/logsettings.md, after:

+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
date = "2025-02-05"
title =  "Log settings"
tags = ["logging"]
categories = ["usersettings"]
+++

After changing a setting, save the changes to keep them next time you use RsyncUI.

{{< figure src="/images/usersettings/logsettings.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

**Check for Errors in Output:**

- default: off
- if the word "error" is found in rsync output, you are notified

**Add Summary Log Record:**

- default: on
- a summary of each synchronization is added to the log records; view "Log Listings" from the Sidebar

**No time delay Synchronize URL-actions**

- default: off
- if on, estimated tasks triggered by URL-actions will synchronize without any chance to abort

**Hide the Sidebar on startup**

- default: off
- the sidebar can be hidden; when on, the sidebar is hidden when RsyncUI starts

**Observe mounting of external drives**

- default: off
- automatic profile selection when RsyncUI detects a new mount of a local attached disk

**Always present the summarized estimate view**

- default "on"
- after an estimate, by selecting the Magic Wand on toolbar Synchronize task view, always present the summarized view

**Hide Verify remote:**

- default "on"
- refer to section *"Verify remote"*, this is a kind of special function, default **not** enabled

**Use two tavles Inspector**

- apply to main Sidebar menu Tasks
- utlize one or two tables for select Inspector for edit tasks and parameters

**Silence missing stats**

- default: off
- stats is the summarized output from rsync; if on, RsyncUI notifies if stats are missing after termination
- in version 2.8.4, missing stats are *unlikely* due to the new *RsyncProcessStreaming*

**Validate arguments**

- default "on", a validation for default parameters
- if the `—delete` parameter is included in the task configuration, the validation checks its presence or absence based on the task configuration’s state, which specifies whether a delete operation is required
- other default validated parameters include `—archive`, `—compress`, and `—dry-run`
  - the `—archive` parameter is always enabled
  - the `—compress` parameter is only applicable for remote tasks
  - if the user requests an estimate, the validation checks that the `—dry-run` parameter is included within the arguments

**Confirm Execution:**

- see below

**Error Output from rsync:**

Sample of an error in output from rsync. If the switch "Check for error in output" is enabled, RsyncUI writes the output to the log file and alerts the user about any errors in rsync.

The log file is stored at `$HOME/.rsyncosx/macserial/rsyncui.txt`. The log file can be opened from the main view.

{{< figure src="/images/usersettings/errorinrsync.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

#### Confirm Execute

This option is only available if version 3.x of `rsync` is enabled.

The confirm dialog appears when the number of files to synchronize is comparable to a new task. Sometimes a remote server or local disk becomes unavailable or you forget to attach it. If you start a synchronize task when the destination is unavailable, `rsync` may think it's a new full sync and prompt you to confirm or abort.

If a remote server is unavailable, `rsync` will likely complain and generate an error. If the `check for error in output` option is enabled in the user settings, the `rsync` error messages written to the log and an Alert will be displayed.

If a local disk is not attached, `rsync` will attempt to synchronize the data to the `/Volumes/` directory on your Mac. This directory is typically where macOS mounts local attached disks.
```bash
/dev/disk5s2 on /Volumes/Import bilder (apfs, local, nodev, nosuid, journaled, noowners)
/dev/disk6s1 on /Volumes/Backups (apfs, local, nodev, nosuid, journaled, noowners)
```
Below the local attached volume is not connected, and the estimate may interpret this as a new synchronize task. If you have simply forgotten to attach the disk, you do not want `RsyncUI` to synchronize data to the `/Volume` directory.

{{< figure src="/images/usersettings/summarizedview.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}
