content/en/docs/Important.md, before:

+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Important"
date = "2025-03-22"
tags = ["important"]
categories = ["general information"]
+++

Before commencing the use of RsyncUI, it is imperative to thoroughly comprehend the following key notes. This section specifically highlights the most crucial ones.

The User Interface of RsyncUI may pose challenges for users unfamiliar with the `rsync` command-line tool. The primary objective is to simplify the usage of `rsync`, rather than providing a comprehensive introduction to `rsync` for macOS users. This scope is beyond the intended purpose of the interface.

### Not a backup tool for everyone

RsyncUI is a specialized application designed exclusively for backup and secure file management. It operates in conjunction with the command-line tool rsync, which is responsible for the actual synchronization process. If you are seeking a comprehensive backup solution that can *create a complete image* of your drive for restoration in the event of a catastrophic event, RsyncUI is not the appropriate tool for your needs.

### Delete parameter 

The --delete parameter, herein referred to as the *delete parameter*, enables rsync to maintain absolute synchronization between the source and destination directories. When a file is deleted from the source, the *delete parameter* instructs rsync to delete the corresponding file from the destination. Conversely, if the *delete parameter* is disabled, the destination directory will contain additional data after deleting files from the source.

Therefore, it is crucial to ascertain whether the *delete parameter* is enabled or disabled. Enabling the *delete parameter* ensures complete synchronization between the source and destination directories.

<div class="alert alert-danger" role="alert">
  
As a safety precaution, the --delete parameter is *not* set as a default parameter when adding new tasks.  To ensure that the source and destination are in complete synchronization, the --delete parameter must be *enabled*.

</div>

#### How to remove and add the delete parameter

Select *Rsync parameters* from the primary Sidebar menu. Select the task for which you want to add or remove the `--delete` parameter. Then toggle *Add --delete parameter* (**ON** means added). After toggling, *remember to update the task*.

- if ON, the --delete parameter is included
- if OFF, the --delete parameter is removed

{{< figure src="/images/rsyncparameters/parameters.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

### Always verify new task

Before executing a new task in RsyncUI, for your own safety perform an estimation run, a --dry-run, and inspect the result. If you inadvertently set an empty directory as the source and the *delete parameter* is *enabled*, rsync will delete all files in the destination.

<div class="alert alert-danger" role="alert">

Setting incorrect parameters for rsync can result in the deletion of data. Furthermore, RsyncUI does not prevent you from performing such actions. RsyncUI is a complimentary and open-source application. For instructions on how to *verify a task*, new or changed tasks, refer to the *Getting started* or *New tasks* section. 

</div>

### Temporary halt tasks

A task can be temporarily halted. Within the primary Synchronize view, select the task and right-click. Halting a task will retain the type of task that was halted when the task is resumed. A halted task displays a red stop sign in the action column.

{{< figure src="/images/important/halttask.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

### Two options to save updates to data

This option applies to the data synchronized by RsyncUI. By enabling either of these options, you can save changes to data, such as deletions or updates, prior to a synchronization task.

<div class="alert alert-secondary" role="alert">

There are two options to automatically save changes to data when it is changed or deleted. 

**Option 1:** `rsync` supports a *backup* flag. Switching this *on* in the *Rsync parameters* view adds the required parameters. You may change the backup directory to any location you want.  

**Option 2:** Using *snapshots* requires that the latest version 3.x of `rsync` is installed. Please refer to the *Snapshots* section for information on how to enable and use snapshots.

</div>

### Remote servers and SSH

RsyncUI compels data transfer via SSH if the destination is a remote server. The parameter `-e ssh` to rsync enables data transfer to be tunneled via SSH. It appears that recent versions of rsync or SSH do not require this parameter, but for safety, RsyncUI appends it if the destination is a remote server.

Through the SSH tunnel, the transfer is encrypted when transmitted over a network connection. Refer to the *Passwordless login* section for further information on SSH and SSH-keys. This feature cannot be disabled.

### Missing log statement

The process termination signal indicates that the external rsync process has completed and the process has been terminated. All tasks within the main synchronize view are updated with the latest run, but there is also a separate logging that records the main result of each task with a timestamp.

Occasionally, when synchronizing data to fast SSDs, the termination signal is detected before all *output from rsync* has been received. The separate logging *may be missing*. After data synchronization and you don’t see a log, you can verify the synchronization of data by making a new estimate. 

The process termination signal serves as a message to perform logging, but if the last summarized rsync output is missing, there is nothing to log. 

*Output from rsync* refers to the information that rsync provides to the terminal during the execution of a task.

Commit message:

Clarify rsync logging behavior and update docs
Improved explanation of missing log statements when synchronizing small amounts of data to fast SSDs. Updated documentation for the --delete parameter and reorganized the 'Missing log statement' section for clarity.

content/en/docs/Important.md, after:

+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Important"
date = "2025-03-22"
tags = ["important"]
categories = ["general information"]
+++

Before commencing the use of RsyncUI, it is imperative to thoroughly comprehend the following key notes. This section specifically highlights the most crucial ones.

The User Interface of RsyncUI may pose challenges for users unfamiliar with the `rsync` command-line tool. The primary objective is to simplify the usage of `rsync`, rather than providing a comprehensive introduction to `rsync` for macOS users. This scope is beyond the intended purpose of the interface.

### Not a backup tool for everyone

RsyncUI is a specialized application designed exclusively for backup and secure file management. It operates in conjunction with the command-line tool rsync, which is responsible for the actual synchronization process. If you are seeking a comprehensive backup solution that can *create a complete image* of your drive for restoration in the event of a catastrophic event, RsyncUI is not the appropriate tool for your needs.

### Delete parameter 

The --delete parameter, herein referred to as the *delete parameter*, enables rsync to maintain absolute synchronization between the source and destination directories. When a file is deleted from the source, the *delete parameter* instructs rsync to delete the corresponding file from the destination. Conversely, if the *delete parameter* is disabled, the destination directory will contain additional data after deleting files from the source.

Therefore, it is crucial to ascertain whether the *delete parameter* is enabled or disabled. Enabling the *delete parameter* ensures complete synchronization between the source and destination directories.

<div class="alert alert-danger" role="alert">
  
As a safety precaution, the --delete parameter is *not* set as a default parameter when adding new tasks.  To ensure that the source and destination are in complete synchronization, the --delete parameter must be *enabled*.

</div>

#### Add and remove the delete parameter

Select *Rsync parameters* from the primary Sidebar menu. Select the task for which you want to add or remove the `--delete` parameter. Then toggle *Add --delete parameter* (**ON** means added). After toggling, *remember to update the task*.

- if ON, the --delete parameter is included
- if OFF, the --delete parameter is removed

{{< figure src="/images/rsyncparameters/parameters.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

### Always verify new task

Before executing a new task in RsyncUI, for your own safety perform an estimation run, a --dry-run, and inspect the result. If you inadvertently set an empty directory as the source and the *delete parameter* is *enabled*, rsync will delete all files in the destination.

<div class="alert alert-danger" role="alert">

Setting incorrect parameters for rsync can result in the deletion of data. Furthermore, RsyncUI does not prevent you from performing such actions. RsyncUI is a complimentary and open-source application. For instructions on how to *verify a task*, new or changed tasks, refer to the *Getting started* or *New tasks* section. 

</div>

### Missing log statement

The process termination signal indicates that the external rsync process has completed and the process has been terminated. All tasks within the main synchronize view are updated with the latest run, but there is also a separate logging that records the main result of each task with a timestamp.

Occasionally, when synchronizing a small amount of data to fast SSDs, the termination signal is detected before all output from rsync has been received. In such cases, the separate logging may be missing. After data synchronization and the absence of a log, you can verify the synchronization of data by recalculating the estimate. 

The process termination signal serves as a message to perform logging, but if the last summarized rsync output is missing, there is nothing to log. 

*Output from rsync* refers to the information that rsync provides to the terminal during the execution of a task.


### Temporary halt tasks

A task can be temporarily halted. Within the primary Synchronize view, select the task and right-click. Halting a task will retain the type of task that was halted when the task is resumed. A halted task displays a red stop sign in the action column.

{{< figure src="/images/important/halttask.png" alt="" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

### Two options to save updates to data

This option applies to the data synchronized by RsyncUI. By enabling either of these options, you can save changes to data, such as deletions or updates, prior to a synchronization task.

<div class="alert alert-secondary" role="alert">

There are two options to automatically save changes to data when it is changed or deleted. 

**Option 1:** `rsync` supports a *backup* flag. Switching this *on* in the *Rsync parameters* view adds the required parameters. You may change the backup directory to any location you want.  

**Option 2:** Using *snapshots* requires that the latest version 3.x of `rsync` is installed. Please refer to the *Snapshots* section for information on how to enable and use snapshots.

</div>

### Remote servers and SSH

RsyncUI compels data transfer via SSH if the destination is a remote server. The parameter `-e ssh` to rsync enables data transfer to be tunneled via SSH. It appears that recent versions of rsync or SSH do not require this parameter, but for safety, RsyncUI appends it if the destination is a remote server.

Through the SSH tunnel, the transfer is encrypted when transmitted over a network connection. Refer to the *Passwordless login* section for further information on SSH and SSH-keys. This feature cannot be disabled.
