content/en/blog/Cloc.md, before:

+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Number of files"
date = "2025-10-17"
tags = ["number of files"]
categories = ["technical details"]
+++

Numbers updated: December 21, 2025, version 2.8.4

RsyncUI does not rely on external libraries; it is constructed using default Swift libraries and Swift/SwiftUI code exclusively.

```
cloc DecodeEncodeGeneric/Sources ParseRsyncOutput/Sources RsyncArguments/Sources RsyncUI/RsyncUI RsyncUIDeepLinks/Sources SSHCreateKey/
Sources RsyncProcessStreaming/Sources ProcessCommand/Sources
     207 text files.
     207 unique files.                                          
      15 files ignored.

github.com/AlDanial/cloc v 2.06  T=0.06 s (3336.2 files/s, 362295.4 lines/s)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Language                     files          blank        comment           code
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Swift                          201           2551           2447          17056
C                                2             36             72            254
XML                              2              0              0             53
JSON                             1              0              0              6
C/C++ Header                     1              1              3              0
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUM:                           207           2588           2522          17369
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

#### Main Repository

- RsyncUI (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUI) - the main repository for RsyncUI

##### Swift Packages used by RsyncUI

All SPM packages are refactored, updated, and checked into the main branch. RsyncUI is a depended on all packages, but the last one is not mandatory. SSH keys can be generated via command line.

- *RsyncProcessStreaming* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncProcessStreaming) - A core function of RsyncUI
	- listens for output from the rsync process as well as termination signal
- *ProcessCommand* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/ProcessCommand) - As above, but for commands other than rsync
- *RsyncArguments* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncArguments) - Generate parameters for `rsync` based on configurations
- *DecodeEncodeGeneric* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/DecodeEncodeGeneric) - Generic code for decoding and encoding JSON data
- *ParseRsyncOutput* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/ParseRsyncOutput) - Parse and extract numerical values from the output of `rsync`
	- this data is used to display details and log results for synchronized tasks
- *RsyncUIDeepLinks* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUIDeepLinks) - Parse and return valid URL deeplinks to execute tasks directly within RsyncUI
- *sshCreateKey* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/sshCreateKey) - Assist in creating an SSH identity file and key using RsyncUI
	- generate an RSA-based SSH key for default and user-defined keys, including the SSH port number

Commit message:

Revise and clarify English documentation for RsyncUI
Improved clarity, conciseness, and readability across multiple documentation files. Updated phrasing for better user guidance, fixed grammar, and made terminology more consistent. No functional or technical changes; all updates are to documentation text only.

content/en/blog/Cloc.md, after:

+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Number of files"
date = "2025-10-17"
tags = ["number of files"]
categories = ["technical details"]
+++

Numbers updated: December 21, 2025 (version 2.8.4).

RsyncUI depends only on the standard Swift and SwiftUI toolchain—no external libraries.

```
cloc DecodeEncodeGeneric/Sources ParseRsyncOutput/Sources RsyncArguments/Sources RsyncUI/RsyncUI RsyncUIDeepLinks/Sources SSHCreateKey/
Sources RsyncProcessStreaming/Sources ProcessCommand/Sources
     207 text files.
     207 unique files.                                          
      15 files ignored.

github.com/AlDanial/cloc v 2.06  T=0.06 s (3336.2 files/s, 362295.4 lines/s)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Language                     files          blank        comment           code
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Swift                          201           2551           2447          17056
C                                2             36             72            254
XML                              2              0              0             53
JSON                             1              0              0              6
C/C++ Header                     1              1              3              0
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUM:                           207           2588           2522          17369
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

#### Main Repository

- RsyncUI (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUI) - the main repository for RsyncUI

##### Swift Packages used by RsyncUI

All SPM packages are refactored, updated, and tracked in the main branch. RsyncUI depends on all of them except the last, which is optional because SSH keys can be generated from the command line.

- *RsyncProcessStreaming* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncProcessStreaming) - A core function of RsyncUI
	- listens for output from the rsync process as well as termination signal
- *ProcessCommand* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/ProcessCommand) - As above, but for commands other than rsync
- *RsyncArguments* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncArguments) - Generate parameters for `rsync` based on configurations
- *DecodeEncodeGeneric* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/DecodeEncodeGeneric) - Generic code for decoding and encoding JSON data
- *ParseRsyncOutput* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/ParseRsyncOutput) - Parse and extract numerical values from the output of `rsync`
	- this data is used to display details and log results for synchronized tasks
- *RsyncUIDeepLinks* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUIDeepLinks) - Parse and return valid URL deeplinks to execute tasks directly within RsyncUI
- *sshCreateKey* (https://github.com/rsyncOSX/sshCreateKey) - Assist in creating an SSH identity file and key using RsyncUI
	- generate an RSA-based SSH key for default and user-defined keys, including the SSH port number
