+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Version 2.7.1"
date = "2025-09-11"
tags = ["changelog","version 2.7.1"]
categories = ["changelog"]
+++

### Version 2.7.1 (build 162) - NOT YET RELEASED

The following are updates to be released sometime after release of version 2.7.0. Version 2.7.1 requires additional testing before its release.

### Some issues about default rsync version in macOS

The default version of rsync in macOS is `openrsync`. There are some issues with this version and RsyncUI. Please refer to the blog post *Rsync versions*. 

### Adjusting output from rsync

This application is applicable only to rsync version 3.x.

The last **16 rows** for rsync version 3.x provide a summarized status of the task. The progress bar accurately reflects the current number of rows being processed during the rsync operation. The maximum number of files to be synchronized is in this version adjusted. 

If there are five files to be transferred, the total number of output lines generated by rsync will be 5 + 16 = 21. After adjusting the progress bar's maximum size to 5, the counting of files is halted when the start of status lines is detected. This causes rsync to only count the actual synchronization of files. 

The above makes the progress bar more accurate.

### Restrictions with openrsync

Version 2.7.1 of RsyncUI will impose certain restrictions on the operations permitted when using the default version of rsync in macOS. These restrictions will only permit standard synchronization tasks and will prohibit snapshot or syncremote tasks.

The adjustment of output is **not** applicable for openrsync.


