content/en/blog/Version287.md, before:

+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Version 2.8.7"
date = "2026-01-10"
tags = ["changelog","version 2.8.7"]
categories = ["changelog"]
+++

### Version 2.8.7 - Jan 10, 2026 dev build

I am releasing this as a development build for testing purposes. The two packages listed below are essential for the proper functioning of RsyncUI. The updated package should resolve the issue “no stats”.

In contrast to version 2.8.6, this development build introduces only two updates: an updated [package RsyncProcessStreaming](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncProcessStreaming) and a function in [package ParseRsyncOutput](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/ParseRsyncOutput) that writes debug data to a text file if the “no stats” issue occurs.

For further details about RsyncProcessStreaming, please refer to the following document:

- a [Code Quality Report](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUI/blob/main/QUALITY_ANALYSIS_DETAILED.md)

Additionally, there is a fixed issue with the command strings for `Copy public SSHKey` and `Verify Public SSHKey` within the “Verify Tasks” menu. The issue is that the command displayed also adds the keygen command in front of the command.

Commit message:

Update blog posts and images for Verify Remote feature
Removed Version 2.8.5 blog post and its associated images, updated Version 2.8.7 blog post with release candidate information, and enhanced Verifyremote.md with new section and images for the Verify Remote application.

content/en/blog/Version287.md, after:

+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Version 2.8.7"
date = "2026-01-10"
tags = ["changelog","version 2.8.7"]
categories = ["changelog"]
+++

### Version 2.8.7 - Jan 10, 2026 dev build

I am releasing this as a development build for testing purposes. The two packages listed below are essential for the proper functioning of RsyncUI. The updated package should resolve the issue “no stats”.

<div class="alert alert-danger" role="alert">

It appears that the updated package fulfills its intended purpose. I have not encountered the "no stats" issue after the update, and several users have downloaded it. For the time being, it will remain a release candidate. However, without a new build, it will become the next release if no issues are reported.

It is anticipated that it will become the next release in approximately one week. 

</div>

In contrast to version 2.8.6, this development build introduces only two updates: an updated [package RsyncProcessStreaming](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncProcessStreaming) and a function in [package ParseRsyncOutput](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/ParseRsyncOutput) that writes debug data to a text file if the “no stats” issue occurs.

For further details about RsyncProcessStreaming, please refer to the following document:

- a [Code Quality Report](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUI/blob/main/QUALITY_ANALYSIS_DETAILED.md)

Additionally, there is a fixed issue with the command strings for `Copy public SSHKey` and `Verify Public SSHKey` within the “Verify Tasks” menu. The issue is that the command displayed also adds the keygen command in front of the command.
