+++
author = "Thomas Evensen"
title = "Version 2.7.4"
date = "2025-10-17"
tags = ["changelog","version 2.7.4"]
categories = ["changelog"]
+++

### Version 2.7.4 (build 165) - not yet released as rc

Updates to RsyncUI have commenced and will be released later in October 2025. The following are the current updates:

#### October 17, 2025

I have commenced experimenting with artificial intelligence (AI) in coding, specifically utilizing Copilot (GPT-5), a service accessible on GitHub and Claude AI by Anthropic. I am permitted to utilize Copilot for free due to the open-source nature of RsyncUI. Claude AI offers a free version with limitations on the number of questions asked within a specified time frame.

I inquired with Copilot and Claude AI about optimizing the [GlobalTimer.swift](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncUI/blob/main/RsyncUI/Model/Global/GlobalTimer.swift) to enhance its reliability during sleep mode on macOS.

I am genuinely impressed by the capabilities of AI in assisting with coding tasks. Both provide different answers, and the code does not always perform as expected. By interacting with AI code, I am able to resolve these some issues.

Today, I have resumed coding on the Schedule code to also reschedule tasks that were not executed after the Mac wakes up after a sleep period. 

{{< alert color="warning" >}}

In my experience, utilizing AI to assist in coding is not always straightforward. Although my experience is limited, I have encountered some challenges with code generated by AI. Nevertheless, I am continually learning and find it enjoyable to utilize AI for coding assistance. Currently, I had to revert most of the code in the scheduler because the new code became overly complex and did not function as intended. 

{{< /alert >}}



#### October 12, 2025

Tasks added to the schedule are validated. The planned next task schedule added must either:

- be *x minutes ahead* of the first schedule in queue
	- the first schedule in queue is always ahead of now	
- be *x minutes subtracted* from the first schedule in queue
	- as above, the planned next schedule must also be greater than now

The Schedule view visually distinguishes invalid times in red font, eliminating the need for additional popups. Only validated task schedules are subsequently incorporated into the schedule.

For the moment x is ten minutes.

##### Sleep mode and queued tasks

When the Mac enters sleep mode with scheduled tasks in queue, the last unexecuted task for the specified profile is executed upon the Mac’s subsequent wake-up. If there are multiple unexecuted tasks for a named profile, only the most recent task in the queue is executed. 

#### October 11, 2025

- in Settings view, all toggles are changed to `.toggleStyle(.switch)`
- every `.onAppear {...}` is replaced with `.task {...}` if the closure includes asynchronous code
	- the .task modifier handles asynchronous functions directly
- the Schedule function is enhanced to tolerate when the Mac goes to sleep
	- when a scheduled task is not executed when the Mac enters sleep mode, the Schedule function retrieves the unexecuted task and executes it upon the Mac's subsequent wake-up

#### Issues when testing awake on Mac

During the testing of the revised code, I encountered an issue with the Mac's behavior when it returns from being asleep and an external attached disc is present. Upon waking, the Mac ejects the attached volume, which subsequently disrupts the synchronization process of RsyncUI. You may test this yourself to verify if there is an issue regarding this.

I asked ChatGPT about this and the answer was: *"Your Mac ejects external disks when waking from sleep due to a common bug or power management issue, where the system incorrectly unmounts the drive during the sleep-wake cycle. To fix this, you can update your macOS, adjust energy saver settings, check for issues with hubs or docks, or use a third-party app like Jettison to automatically unmount the drive before sleep and remount it upon waking."*
